# Angular - The Complete Guide 

## Udemy Angular Tutorial Notes Section 1: Getting Started - Part 1

1. [ Intro ](#intro)
2. [ Update Angular CLI ](#update-angular-cli)
3. [ Creating Project with CLI ](#creating-project-with-CLI)
4. [ File Structure ](#file-structure)
5. [ Importing Modules ](#importing-modules)

<a data="intro"></a>

### **_Intro_**

- Use Angular CLI to set-up Angular projects.
- Check that you have `@angular/cli` on your computer with this command:

```
ng --version
```

<a data="update-angular-cli"></a>

### **_Update Angular CLI_**

- To update your `@angular/cli`, you need to uninstall it, and re-install. Use the following commands:

```
sudo npm uninstall -g @angular/cli
sudo npm cache verify
```
- The second command can take a while, wait till you see:

```
➜  ~ sudo npm cache verify
Cache verified and compressed (~/.npm/_cacache):
Content verified: 6667 (363671479 bytes)
Content garbage-collected: 2338 (102310276 bytes)
Index entries: 11136
Finished in 21.615s
```

- Once you get the above message, run:

```
sudo npm install -g @angular/cli@latest
```

If none of the above work, run:

```
ng update @angular/cli @angular/core --force
```

<a data="creating-project-with-CLI"></a>

### **_Creating Project with CLI_**

1. Navigate to the folder where you want your angular project.
2. use `ng new` followed by the name of your app. I will name my project `udemy-angular`. So enter:

```
ng new udemy-angular
```
3. Once it's done, navigate to that project and run `ng serve` to see the welcome window.

<a data="file-structure"></a>

### **_File Structure_**

- Other than the `e2e` folder, coding in Angular takes place in the  `app` folder.
    - The `html` file is the template
    - The `ts` file is the definition of the component.
    - `.module.ts` files is where you import modules.
- A new angular project will have the following file structure (this lists relevant files for basic developing):

```
- e2e
- src
  - app
    - app.component.css
    - app.component.html
    - app.component.spec.ts
    - app.component.ts
    -app.module.ts
  - assets
```

- `app.component.ts` has a selector of `app-root` which is a custom element that is the root of the entire application.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
})
export class AppComponent {
  title = 'app';
}
```

<a data="importing-modules"></a>

### **_Importing Modules_**

Angular is split up in modules and different modules provide different functionality. To use a feature from a module, you need to import it. Importing modules takes place in files that and appended with `.module.ts`. 

##### Importing Example

- 



`ngModel` is a directive , it tells angular to listen to anything you enter "here" and store in this "name" property (in this name model) and output the value of the name model in this input.