# React Front to Back

## Udemy React Tutorial Notes Section 2: Getting Started - Part 2

1. [ Intro ](#intro)
2. [ Setup ](#set-up)
3. [ File Structure ](#file-structure) 

<a data="set-up"></a>
### **_Intro_**

_Create React App_ is a command line interface that you can be installed using npm package manager. The official github page has the most up-to-date commands to start a react project.

Behind the scenes, _react-app_ uses something called webpack and babel. Webpack is a javascript bundler, that takes your javascript, sass and images (amoung other things) and bundles it into something the browser can read.

Babel is a javascipt compiler that compiles ES6 javascript to ES5. The most important aspect of ES6 that needs to be compiled are modules. (Arrow functions and classes don't need Babel.)

<a data="set-up"></a>
### **_Set-up_**

First it's good to make sure that you have _Create React App_ CLI downloaded globally. To do this, type the following in your terminal:

```
sudo npm install -g create-react-app
```

Then head-over to the official github of _create-react-app_ <https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app> to see the most up-to-date command line prompts to download a project.

This time, I used:
```
npx create-react-app my-app
```
Once you've created the project, just use the command:
```
npm start
``` 
to stop your local server, enter:
```
control C
```
When you are ready to deploy, enter:
```
npm build
```
This will build out all your static assets. Once you enter ```npm build```, a folder titled *build* will appear which will contain all your static assets. You can delete the build folder at anytime and regenerate it at any time with the ```npm build``` command. 

<a data="file-structure"></a>
### **_File Structure_**

#### General 

* The ```package.json``` file shows your applications dependencies and scripts.

##### ```index.html```

* Inside the public folder, the ```index.html``` is the entry point of your entire application.
* The ```<div>``` with the ```id``` of ```root``` is very important because this is where the main app component is rendered.
* Every component that we create will go into that ```root``` component.
* The ```source``` folder is where we build our application. 


#### Source Folder
##### ```index.js```

The entry of javascript is in ```index.js```. 

```javascript
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import './index.css';
import App from './App';
import * as serviceWorker from './serviceWorker';

ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'));
serviceWorker.unregister();
```
This is what's happening in the code above:

* React has a method called ```.render``` which takes 2 parameters.
  * The first parameter is what ```.render``` will render, which in this case is the ```<App />``` component.
  * The second parameter is the location of where to render the component specified in the first paramter, which is in the case is ```document.getElementById('root')```.

##### ```App.js```

* ```App.js``` is the main app component. 
* The ```App``` class extends the ```Component``` class.
* Every class component is going to extend the core ```Component``` class that's included with React.
* This core ```Component``` class includes a bunch of different methods that we can use including ```.render()```.

##### Clean-up

To start an application from scratch, do the following clean-up by deleting the following code from the following files:

| File          | Code Block    
| ------------- |:-------------:|
| ```App.css``` | delete all code |
| ```App.js```  | delete everything inside ```<div className="App-header"></div> ```| 
| ```App.css``` | delete all code      |


delete the following files and remove any corresponding ```import``` statements.

| File            | Import Code     
| -------------   |:--------------:|
| ```logo.svg```  | ```App.js```   |
| ```index.css``` | ```index.js``` |
