# Flutter

## Udemy Angular Tutorial Notes Section 2: Flutter Basics

1. [ Flutter Basics ](#flutter-basics)

<a data="flutter-basics"></a>
### **_Flutter Basics_**

- To create a flutter project, you need to download flutter CLI and the core library. Once this is done, navigate to the folder where you want your flutter app and enter `flutter create app-name` into the terminal where `app-name` is the name of your app.
- Project names cannot have dashes or blank spaces, you must use underscores.

#### File System Overview

- `.idea`
    - This folder contains configuration for Android Studio
- `android`
    - This folder is similar to the flutter build for Android
    - It holds a complete android project
    - Flutter injects code into this `android` folder.
    - The emulator runs using code in the `android` folder.
    - Only in very rare cases will you need to make changes in that folder.
- `build`
    - This folder is holds the output of your flutter application.
    - This folder is generated and managed by the flutter SDK
    - You should not change anything in this folder.
    - This folder gets updated when you build your app for deployment.
- `ios`
    - This is the same as the android folder, it's just the ios version.
    - This project holds a complete XCode project.
- `lib`
    - The library folder is where you do 99% of your work.
    - All Dart files go in the `lib` folder.
- `test`
    - This folder is where we write tests and automated tests for our application.
- `pubspec.yaml` 
    - This file is where we can configure our dependencies.
    - This is where we would add a third party package.
    - This is where you would configure things like fonts and images.
    - `yaml` files use indenting to express how code works together



